Hi and welcome back and let's jump right into the map filter and zip functions as well as the list comprehensions.
So we'll start by defining a small function.
Let's do a factorial function that's going to calculate the factorial of its argument.
And so we're going to return the one if and is less than 2.
Else we're going to return 10 times factorial of an minus one.
So that's a simple recursive definition for the factorial.
So we can call factorial of 3 which should be 6 factorial of thought which would be 24 and so on.
And let's suppose that now we want to calculate the factor all of a bunch of numbers and we want to
put that into a list.
What we can do that using the map so map is going to apply our function.
So here's our function fact.
You'll notice I do not have parentheses right.
We're not calling the function which is specifying the function map is a higher order function its first
argument is a function.
And what we want to apply this to.
Well maybe I want to apply it one two three four five or even simpler.
I'm going to see a range of 6 right.
That's going to go 0 1 2 3 4 5 and if we do this we get our map back again in Reier.
This is not a list.
Now we can iterate through it or we can convert it to a list whatever.
So let me go ahead and assign this two results.
OK.
So if we print the results this is what we have right.
We have our map so we can iterate for x in results we can say print x then we get this back 1 1 2 6
24 120 right.
Factor all of 0 is 1.
So we can do this as many times as we want.
Right.
We have our results for X and results.
Let's just run the same piece of code again and we get nothing.
What happened well here's what happens especially and this really isn't Python 3.
This wasn't the case in Python to but Python 3 map and filter and zip don't return lists or tuples or
anything like that.
They return generators they return something that basically doesn't pre-calculate So when we've actually
created this this map object we actually haven't calculated the factorial yet but when we request the
items by iterating through this object then Python goes ahead and calculates and makes the calculations
as we request it.
If we had only requested the first three elements of this results here then it would only have calculated
the first three.
It wouldn't have calculated the remaining ones.
So that's pretty handy because it means that you are deferring your calculations to the time when you
actually need them and not doing them ahead of time and potentially not even using them.
So of course this could be a problem because if you want if you want to reuse that same results multiple
times where you can't.
Right.
So in fact what we would need to do in this case is turn into a list that will actually put it into
a list that will now calculate everything and make a list out of it.
So now when we print the results we actually have a list.
So just something to keep in mind and we'll get back to that a little bit later as well.
So let's go ahead and let's see how we might use now the map to add elements from two different lists.
So it's a we have one equals one comet to Comet 3 come of full color 5 and L2 equals 10 20 30.
All right so we have three elements in the second list five elements in the first list and we want to
add up the elements from the list.
Obviously we can only add up for as long you know for the shortest list of the two.
So it's going to be 10 20 and 30 now we can go ahead and do it this way for results call list Saddam
just to put my list right away and then map.
Now what do I want what I'm going to use the LAMDA.
So here I'm going to take a Alamdar that takes in two values because I'm going to get right values from
L 1 and L 2 and it's going to return the sum and it's going to do this using 0 1 and 2.
So if we print our results we get 11 22 33 which is what we expected.
Now we can expand this further we can say L-3 equals that say 100 200 300 400 k.
So again an even lent.
But it's only going to run as long as one of them you know for as long as one of them has not been exhausted.
So as soon as one of these lists is exhausted the whole thing will stop.
So in this case will just deal with the first three elements of each list.
Now it doesn't have to be a list.
This could just be a tuple that's fine too.
So let's go ahead and do and change that.
So now our function needs to take in three arguments and it's going to an X plus Y plus Z.
And we have to give it three sequences I guess I have to run this first.
OK.
And now if we print our results we get 111 222 333.
Now I want to show you something going back to the fact that map doesn't actually return a list.
Let's do this let's see.
Results equals map.
And let's map lambda and x y is x plus y with L1 L2 in l. 3.
Robert I said that this function here needs to take in as many arguments as you specify iterable here.
While in this case we've supplied three lists or three intervals and this function only takes two.
So that should give us an error.
But it doesn't even print results out what does it tell us to cause us to map object OK.
Let's iterate through it.
Let's see what we get.
And now we get an error it says lambda takes two positional arguments but three were given.
Yeah right.
We're passing in three we're passing in a tuple basically.
That's arm three it's not a tuple but it's three values from these three intervals.
But you'll notice we didn't get the error until we actually started the iteration.
Why.
Because again it doesn't actually make the calculation right away.
It defers that until you actually request items from that new iterable.
And this is why the error doesn't show up until this point here.
So next let's look at the filter function.
So the filter function is just a way for us to filter a list.
So let's say we have the following We have actually called range of let's say 25.
And if I print x where do I get.
While I get this range object again it's not a list.
In fact that range hasn't even been calculated yet.
It's only once I I request the items that it calculates it.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's say for x in range 25 for any x.
Well four Actually I made call to range.
OK.
So let me say for an X because this is what I want to show you first we're going to print.
And so we get what we expect right.
We get zero for 24.
Let's go ahead and copy this and let's do that again.
And we get the again 0 through 24.
So the range unlike the map and the filter we can reuse this which just something to keep in mind.
You can use it as often as we want.
OK.
So now let's go ahead and filter those range out.
Now we only want to keep let's say values that are divisible by three.
Right.
I know we did.
Even in the lecture that's the divisible by three in this case.
So we're going to want to do a filter.
We're going to use a lambda expression we're going to take a single argument and we're going to test
to see if X not three is equal to zero.
If it is then we want to retain the element.
And so now we just pass in our range range 25.
And of course I'm going to throw this into a list right away because filter behaves the same way as
map it doesn't actually do the evaluations until you actually request the elements.
So I'm going to do that by putting him into a list.
And so you can see that we only get items that are divisible by three zeros divisible by three because
the remainder is 0.
Right.
3 6 9 12 etc. They're all divisible by three.
So that's the filter function.
Now you can also use the filter function using no function at all as the argument right for.
And what it will do.
Will just look at the truthiness of each element in that list or sequence that you pass in the interval
that you pass in and only retain those ones.
So let's take a look at that.
So we're going to pass and none for our function right.
So not isn't a function but it's acting as a as the function here was specifying none.
Right.
And then we have some iterable that we have to pass in here.
So let's go ahead and create some lists and let's say one and zero and four and a and the empty string
and maybe the non-object and maybe.
True and false that say.
OK.
And what do we get.
Well we get this filter.
So again we need to put it in a list if we want to see quickly what's going on.
So one was retained.
One is truthy zero is falsie.
So it was thrown out for just truthy it stayed the string a state Struth the the empty string is faulty.
So it's gone.
True is obviously truthy and false is false.
So it got tossed up right.
So that's how you can use filters.
So next thing that I want to look at a list comprehensions and before we do that I'm going to look at
the zip function pretty quickly.
So there's a function remember from the lecture allows you to zip together one or two or more sequence
types write two or more intervals.
So let's say we have our first iterable is one two three four.
Maybe our second iterable is arm 10 20 30 14 and let's say our third iterable is a string Python.
OK.
So here we have these three and we can zip them together.
And what do we get.
What we get this zip object back.
So once again we have to be careful.
This is not a list.
So if I make this results equal to zip.
Now we can iterate through that x in results print x.
What do we get.
Well we get two apples back we get 110 P 220 y three authority T and so on.
And it stops at the shortest one which is with four.
So the remaining characters in Python are left out.
Now what happens if I try and do this again.
I get nothing back.
Why.
Well again zoop defers the calculation until you request it.
But it's a generator.
It's not a list which means that once you've exhausted this generator you're done.
You can't go back if you want to be able to go back then you should put it into a list.
Right now you can do it as many times as you want.
So that's the Zipp function.
And that's really useful for doing a variety of things.
You may want to for example zip up.
Let's say that we want a zip code range and I'll make a range of ten thousand.
It doesn't matter I'm making a real big and I'm going to take the string Python Lexa.
OK.
So fight zip that up.
What's going to happen.
While Range is going to be 0 2 9 9 well whatever number of nines.
And then the second iterable is python which is a string of characters sequence of characters and it's
going to stop at the shortest one.
Right so I know that's why it doesn't matter what I specify for the range as long as it's large enough
to cover the number of characters in my string.
I'll be able to index them.
So again I get my zip object back.
So I'm just going to put a list and get it back.
And so here we have 0 p 1 y 280 and so on.
So that allowed us to get both the index and the character in the string.
So it's a very handy way for doing things like that.
So now let Now that we have Zipp Let's go ahead and see how we might use list comprehensions to emulate
map and filter as we saw in the lecture.
So let's go back to our factorial function.
So let's say l equals the range of 10 right.
So this is going to be 0 for 9 print help.
Well we get a range right.
So where do we need to do we need to print a list of people who want to see what it is 0 3 9.
Again we can do this multiple times.
Range behaves a little differently than the other generators that we've seen.
So let's go ahead and now calculate the factorial of each of those things.
Well remember before we would have had to do map fact L and would throw that into a list and we get
our factorials here.
But we can use a list comprehension to do the same thing.
We can say results equals and then we'll do square brackets for a list.
Right.
We're generating with creating a list.
And what do we want.
Well we want the factorial of n for n in range to 10.
And if we print the results out we get that same list.
Now the difference is that this actually created a list not something that was you know whose calculation
was deferred.
So in that sense map is better than the list comprehension because it doesn't work better in some cases
because it doesn't actually do the calculations until they're requested.
Which means that if you don't request all of them it won't do all the calculations whereas this one
will perform all the factoring calculations whether you iterate through this or not so of course there
is a way to do that in Python as well.
Those are called generator expressions.
And basically we're going to take the same thing here the same content but we're going to use round
parentheses and we print results.
It tells us it's a generator object.
So this is similar to map and filter and zip.
It doesn't actually calculate everything.
Nothing has been calculated at that point and we'll see that in much more detail later on in the schools.
But I just want to show you right now.
So if I iterate the results right we can do this and we get this back right.
We get 1 1.
So here we have the same items that we had in this list.
But if I try and run this again then I get the same problem or the same thing which is that my results
iteration has been exhausted.
It's an iterator it's been exhausted.
I can't go back.
So what do I need to do in that case.
Well I need to make it into a list right.
So we'd have to put it into a list to say results equals and then we could put the list around that.
Right.
Now of course when the generator inside.
So we need to put another set of parentheses.
And now if we print I can just print results this way.
We get that back.
But of course there's no point if you're going to do this when you transform that into a list when you're
making a list out of the generator.
It is now iterating through every element every result of that generator and putting it into a list.
So you might as well just use the list comprehension syntax.
OK.
This way.
So Harvey you want to do it and we'll get back to generators and list comprehensions and dictionary
comprehensions later on in the schools.
But do note that we do have a similar way of doing things as map and filter in terms of deferred calculations
for the next example.
Let's take a look at how we might do a list comprehension.
When we're dealing with two sequence types two intervals just like we had in the beginning when we were
adding elements of two sequences.
So let's take two lists and say One two three four five six.
Let's take L2 equal to 10 20 30 40 and we want to add elements from L 1 and 2.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So how to do this using our map right before we just had to do something like this just to call.
And actually I'm going to put a list over there right away.
So map we're going to take a lambda expression it's going to take two arguments it's going to add those
arguments are and we're going to apply this to everyone else too and put in my extra parentheses and
there we go.
Now we can do this using a list comprehension or a generator expression however you want to do it and
here.
What are we going to want to do.
Well we're going to want to add X plus why.
And this is for for x y in Zipp of L-1 and held to right.
So we're going to zip L1 L2 up which means now we're going to end up with an interval that contains
tuples the tuples two elements in the tuples because we have two lists here.
So we can unpack them into x and y as we do the iteration.
And then we're going to walk over x and y add them together and that will form the elements for the
new list.
So if we do that we get the same thing with 20 to 30 3:44.
Now we can also add filtering in there.
Let's say that we want to filter this list and we only want to keep elements in here that are even like
we want to do that.
Well what we'd have to do is would have to write a filter we'd have to say filter.
Now will have to have a lambda that calculates where the something is even or not which misses a divisible
by 2.
So I would say X div 2 month 2 Sorry equals zero.
That's how we're going to define or determine if something is even or not.
What are we going to pass in there.
Well we want to pass whatever generated this list here which was this map over here.
So let's go ahead and put that in.
Okay.
And then lastly we want to make this into a list.
So we have to put a list.
So now if we do this we only get 20 to 40 foldback which is indeed correct.
Right 11 and 33 odd they got tossed out.
So this is one way of doing it using the map and the filter.
It's kind of reverse right.
You have to do your map inside you've got to calculate your map first and then you have to do your filter.
So instead you could use a list comprehension to do the following.
What do we want to return.
We want to return.
Well first of all let's start with the iteration.
We're going to iterate for X Y and Z.
Well one common L two.
OK.
So we're going to iterate through those tuples.
But and what are we going to return.
We're going to return x.
Plus Y.
Right but what do we want.
We only want to keep it if X plus Y's even.
So we can say if x plus y mom to pick these people to zero.
OK.
So here's a list comprehension and we get the same thing back.
You'll notice that we have this statement here that's going to perform the filtering for us.
So if X-post why not is zero then we're going to keep this iteration and we're going to return x plus
y given that X and Y are being iterated through this Zipp which is basically a collection of tuples
made up of a one and two.
All right.
So as you can see you can use either the map and the filter functions.
Now again this is resulting in a list if you want.
You can make a generator which means it doesn't actually calculate everything until you request it.
Right.
So if I print results it's just going to be a generator.
And we don't have actually any calculations done that's been deferred until we actually iterate through
it solved by doing something like this.
Iterate through it and generates the actual list out of it.
Again we just get twenty two and forty four out.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.